lib/features/ai/README.md, before:

# AI Feature

This module provides a comprehensive AI integration system for generating task summaries, action item suggestions, image analysis, and audio transcription using various AI providers.

## Overview

The AI feature consists of several key components:

1. **Configuration Management**: Store and manage API keys, prompts, and model configurations
2. **Prompt Creation**: Build structured prompts for different AI tasks
3. **Inference Execution**: Run AI inference through various providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, etc.)
4. **Response Processing**: Parse and display AI-generated responses
5. **UI Components**: Settings pages, response displays, and configuration management

## Architecture

### Core Components

#### Models (`model/`)
- **`ai_config.dart`**: Union type for different configuration types (API keys, prompts, models)
- **`ai_input.dart`**: Data structures for task input (task details, action items, log entries)
- **`cloud_inference_config.dart`**: Configuration for cloud inference providers

#### Database (`database/`)
- **`ai_config_db.drift`**: Drift database schema for persistent storage
- **`ai_config_repository.dart`**: Interface for CRUD operations on configurations

#### Repositories (`repository/`)
- **`unified_ai_inference_repository.dart`**: Main repository handling all AI inference requests
- **`cloud_inference_repository.dart`**: Handles communication with AI providers
- **`ai_input_repository.dart`**: Prepares task data for AI processing

#### Services (`services/`)
- **`auto_checklist_service.dart`**: Handles automatic checklist creation logic and decision making

#### State Management (`state/`)
- **`unified_ai_controller.dart`**: Main controller orchestrating AI operations
- **`inference_status_controller.dart`**: Tracks inference progress and status
- **`latest_summary_controller.dart`**: Manages the latest AI response for a task

## How Task Summaries Work

### 1. Prompt Creation

Task summary prompts are defined in `util/preconfigured_prompts.dart` and configured through the prompt management system:

```dart
const taskSummaryPrompt = PreconfiguredPrompt(
  name: 'Task Summary',
  // Creates a detailed prompt instructing the AI to:
  // - Start with a single H1 header suggesting a task title
  // - Summarize the task for someone returning after a long time
  // - List achieved results (with ✅ emojis)
  // - List remaining steps (numbered)
  // - Note learnings (💡) and annoyances (🤯)
  // - Indicate if the task is complete
);
```

The prompt template includes:
- System message setting context
- Detailed user message with formatting instructions
- Placeholder `{{task}}` replaced with actual task JSON

### 2. Data Flow

1. **Input Preparation**: Task data is serialized to JSON including:
   - Task title, status, duration
   - Action items (completed and pending)
   - Log entries with timestamps and text

2. **Inference Execution**:
   ```dart
   // In UnifiedAiInferenceRepository
   await _runCloudInference(
     input: taskJson,
     promptConfig: promptConfig,
     inferenceProvider: provider,
   );
   ```

3. **Response Streaming**: AI responses are streamed and accumulated

### 3. Response Parsing and Processing

For task summaries, the response is treated as markdown text:
- No JSON parsing (unlike action item suggestions)
- The complete response is saved as an `AiResponseEntry`
- Post-processing includes automatic title extraction (see below)
- Displayed using `GptMarkdown` widget for proper formatting

### 4. Automatic Title Extraction

When generating task summaries, the system automatically extracts suggested titles:
- The AI is prompted to start with an H1 header (`# Title`)
- The title is extracted using regex pattern: `^#\s+(.+)$`
- If the current task title is less than 5 characters, it's replaced with the AI suggestion
- This enables automatic title generation for tasks created from audio recordings
- The extracted title updates the task entity in the database
- When displaying summaries, the H1 title is filtered out to avoid redundancy

## Automatic Checklist Creation with Smart Re-run

### Overview

The AI system includes automatic checklist creation for action item suggestions. When AI generates action item suggestions for a task that has no existing checklists, it automatically creates a checklist containing all the suggested items, then intelligently re-runs the AI suggestions to provide fresh recommendations.

### How It Works

1. **AI generates action item suggestions** for a task (first run)
2. **Post-processing check** in `UnifiedAiInferenceRepository._handlePostProcessing()`
3. **Decision logic**: 
   - If task has no existing checklists → auto-create checklist with all suggestions
   - If task has existing checklists → show manual drag-and-drop suggestions (existing behavior)
4. **Automatic re-run**: After checklist creation, the same AI prompt runs again
5. **Smart results**: Second run typically produces 0 suggestions since items are now in the checklist

### Implementation Details

#### Key Components:
- **`AutoChecklistService`**: Core service handling auto-creation logic and decision making
- **`UnifiedAiInferenceRepository._handleActionItemSuggestions()`**: Post-processing method that triggers auto-creation
- **`UnifiedAiInferenceRepository._rerunActionItemSuggestions()`**: Automatic re-run logic
- **`ChecklistRepository.createChecklist()`**: Creates checklist with initial items
- **Semaphore protection**: Prevents concurrent auto-creation for the same task

#### Decision Flow:
```dart
// In _handlePostProcessing()
if (promptConfig.aiResponseType == AiResponseType.actionItemSuggestions) {
  if (entity is Task && suggestedActionItems != null && suggestedActionItems.isNotEmpty && !isRerun) {
    await _handleActionItemSuggestions(entity, suggestedActionItems);
  }
}

// In _handleActionItemSuggestions()
if (_autoCreatingTasks.contains(task.id)) {
  return; // Prevent concurrent auto-creation
}

final shouldAutoCreate = await _autoChecklistService.shouldAutoCreate(taskId: task.id);
if (shouldAutoCreate) {
  _autoCreatingTasks.add(task.id); // Mark as processing
  try {
    // Convert AI suggestions to checklist items and create checklist
    final result = await autoChecklistService.autoCreateChecklist(...);
    if (result.success) {
      await _rerunActionItemSuggestions(task); // Auto re-run
    }
  } finally {
    _autoCreatingTasks.remove(task.id); // Always clean up
  }
}
```

#### Smart Re-run System

Instead of hiding suggestions, the system automatically re-runs the AI prompt after checklist creation:

- **Automatic trigger**: After successful checklist creation, the exact same prompt that was used originally runs again
- **Context awareness**: AI recognizes items are now in the checklist and typically suggests nothing
- **Natural UX**: Users see the auto-created checklist plus minimal/empty suggestions
- **No state tracking**: No need for complex `autoChecklistCreated` field management
- **Consistent results**: Re-run uses the exact same prompt configuration, ensuring consistent behavior

#### Technical Implementation

1. **Semaphore Protection**:
   ```dart
   // Prevent concurrent auto-creation
   final Set<String> _autoCreatingTasks = {};
   
   if (_autoCreatingTasks.contains(task.id)) {
     return; // Skip if already processing
   }
   ```

2. **Automatic Re-run**:
   ```dart
   // In _handleActionItemSuggestions()
   if (result.success) {
     await _rerunActionItemSuggestions(task, promptConfig);
   }
   
   // In _rerunActionItemSuggestions()
   await _runInferenceInternal(
     entityId: task.id,
     promptConfig: originalPrompt, // Use exact same prompt as originally
     onProgress: (_) {}, // Silent re-run
     onStatusChange: (_) {},
     isRerun: true, // Prevent recursive auto-creation
   );
   ```

3. **Robust Concurrency Protection**:
   ```dart
   // Simplified error handling with reliable semaphore cleanup
   if (shouldAutoCreate) {
     _autoCreatingTasks.add(task.id);
     try {
       // Auto-creation and re-run logic
     } finally {
       // Always clean up semaphore, even if errors occur
       _autoCreatingTasks.remove(task.id);
     }
   }
   ```

#### Benefits

- **Eliminates manual work**: Saves up to 10 clicks (creating checklist + dragging multiple items)
- **Natural UX**: No hidden UI elements - users see logical progression
- **Race condition protection**: Semaphore prevents database constraint errors
- **AI context awareness**: AI naturally produces fewer/no suggestions after items are in checklist
- **Seamless experience**: First-time users get immediate value from AI suggestions
- **Backwards compatible**: Existing manual flow unchanged for tasks with checklists
- **Self-healing**: System corrects duplicate suggestions through intelligent re-run
- **Optimized performance**: Eliminates redundant database calls by passing `shouldAutoCreate` result directly

## Response Types

The system supports four AI response types:

1. **Task Summary** (`AiResponseType.taskSummary`)
   - Generates comprehensive task overviews
   - Response is markdown text
   - No special parsing required

2. **Action Item Suggestions** (`AiResponseType.actionItemSuggestions`)
   - Extracts potential action items from logs
   - Response is parsed as JSON array
   - Items not already in task are suggested
   - **Automatic Checklist Creation with Smart Re-run** - If no checklists exist for the task, automatically creates a checklist with all AI suggestions, then re-runs the prompt to show updated suggestions (typically empty since items are now in the checklist)

3. **Image Analysis** (`AiResponseType.imageAnalysis`)
   - Analyzes attached images in task context
   - When linked to a task, extracts only task-relevant information
   - Provides humorous dismissal for off-topic images
   - Response is descriptive text without AI disclaimer

4. **Audio Transcription** (`AiResponseType.audioTranscription`)
   - Transcribes audio recordings
   - When linked to a task, uses task context for better accuracy with names and concepts
   - Response is transcribed text

## Configuration System

### API Key Management

```dart
// Create an API key configuration
final config = AiConfig.apiKey(
  id: 'openai-key',
  baseUrl: 'https://api.openai.com/v1',
  apiKey: 'sk-...',
  name: 'OpenAI API Key',
  createdAt: DateTime.now(),
  supportsThinkingOutput: true,
);

// Save configuration
await repository.saveConfig(config);
```

### Prompt Configuration

Prompts can be:
- **Preconfigured**: Use built-in templates from `preconfiguredPrompts.dart`
  - Task Summary
  - Action Item Suggestions
  - Image Analysis
  - Image Analysis in Task Context
  - Audio Transcription
  - Audio Transcription with Task Context
- **Custom**: Create custom prompts with variables and specific requirements

The system includes context-aware variations of prompts that activate when entities are linked to tasks, providing more relevant and focused AI responses.

### Model Configuration

Models define:
- Which provider to use
- Model name (e.g., "gpt-4", "claude-opus-4")
- Supported modalities (text, image, audio)
- Token limits

## UI Components

### Settings Pages
- **`ai_settings_page.dart`**: Main settings hub with tabs for prompts, models, providers
- **`prompt_edit_page.dart`**: Create/edit prompt configurations
- **`inference_model_edit_page.dart`**: Configure AI models
- **`inference_provider_edit_page.dart`**: Manage API providers

### Response Display
- **`ai_response_summary.dart`**: Renders AI responses with markdown support (filters H1 titles for task summaries)
- **`latest_ai_response_summary.dart`**: Shows the most recent AI response for a task
- **`ai_response_summary_modal.dart`**: Full-screen view of AI responses

### Progress Indicators
- **`unified_ai_progress_view.dart`**: Shows inference progress
- **`ai_running_animation.dart`**: Animated indicator during processing

## Usage Example

```dart
// 1. User triggers AI summary from task view
final controller = UnifiedAiController(
  taskId: task.id,
  ref: ref,
  aiResponseType: AiResponseType.taskSummary,
);

// 2. Controller automatically:
//    - Fetches task data
//    - Selects appropriate prompt
//    - Runs inference
//    - Saves response

// 3. UI displays response
LatestAiResponseSummary(
  taskId: task.id,
  aiResponseType: AiResponseType.taskSummary,
)
```

## Common Questions

### Q: How are prompts customized?
A: Prompts use a template system with variables like `{{task}}`. The system replaces these with actual data before sending to the AI.

### Q: How does automatic title extraction work?
A: When generating task summaries, the AI suggests a title as an H1 header. If the current task title is less than 5 characters (e.g., empty or very short), it's automatically replaced with the AI's suggestion. This is particularly useful for tasks created from audio recordings.

### Q: How does context-aware image analysis work?
A: When an image is linked to a task, the image analysis prompt automatically includes the full task context (title, status, action items, log entries). The AI then:
- Extracts only information relevant to the task
- Provides a brief, humorous note if the image is off-topic (e.g., "This appears to be a photo of ducks by a lake, which seems unrelated to your database migration task. Moving on...")
- Focuses on actionable insights for task-relevant images
This prevents verbose, irrelevant image descriptions from cluttering task summaries.

### Q: When are task-context prompts shown in the AI menu?
A: Task-context prompts (like "Image Analysis in Task Context" or "Audio Transcription with Task Context") only appear in the AI popup menu when:
- An image/audio is linked to a task
- The prompt requires both the media type AND task context
The system automatically filters available prompts based on the current entity and its relationships, ensuring users only see relevant options.

### Q: Which AI providers are supported?
A: The system supports OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, Groq, OpenRouter, and custom OpenAI-compatible endpoints.

### Q: How are errors handled?
A: Errors are wrapped in `InferenceError` objects and displayed using `AiErrorDisplay` widget with user-friendly messages.

### Q: Can I use local models?
A: Yes, by configuring a custom endpoint pointing to a local inference server (e.g., Ollama).

### Q: How does the system handle concurrent AI requests?
A: The system includes robust concurrency protection:
- **Semaphore Protection**: Prevents multiple auto-checklist creations for the same task simultaneously
- **Race Condition Prevention**: Uses a `Set<String> _autoCreatingTasks` to track ongoing operations
- **Database Safety**: Eliminates "UNIQUE constraint failed" errors from concurrent operations
- **Graceful Cleanup**: Ensures semaphore state is cleaned up on both success and failure
- **Silent Re-runs**: Secondary AI runs don't trigger additional auto-creation to prevent recursion

## Testing

The system includes comprehensive test coverage:

### Unit Tests
- **Repository Tests**: Mock tests for `AiInputRepository`, `UnifiedAiInferenceRepository`, `AiConfigRepository`
- **Service Tests**: Tests for `AutoChecklistService` including edge cases and error handling
- **Controller Tests**: Tests for `ChecklistSuggestionsController` and state management
- **Concurrency Tests**: Semaphore protection and race condition prevention

### Integration Tests
- **Auto-checklist Creation**: End-to-end testing of automatic checklist creation flow
- **Smart Re-run System**: Testing of automatic re-run after checklist creation
- **Concurrency Protection**: Testing semaphore prevents database constraint errors
- **Error Handling**: Graceful failure modes and recovery

### Widget Tests
- **UI Components**: Tests for AI settings pages, response displays, and configuration management
- **Provider Integration**: Tests for Riverpod state management integration

### Key Test Coverage
- ✅ Basic auto-checklist creation functionality
- ✅ Semaphore prevents concurrent auto-creation
- ✅ Re-run generates appropriate suggestions after checklist creation
- ✅ Behavior when tasks already have existing checklists
- ✅ Error handling in auto-checklist service
- ✅ UI shows correct suggestions after re-run
- ✅ All existing functionality remains unbroken (200+ tests passing)

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored locally in the encrypted database
- Keys are never logged or exposed in the UI
- Network requests use HTTPS
- Sensitive data is not included in error messages

Commit message:

test: add tests for whisper inference

lib/features/ai/README.md, after:

# AI Feature

This module provides a comprehensive AI integration system for generating task summaries, action item suggestions, image analysis, and audio transcription using various AI providers.

## Overview

The AI feature consists of several key components:

1. **Configuration Management**: Store and manage API keys, prompts, and model configurations
2. **Prompt Creation**: Build structured prompts for different AI tasks
3. **Inference Execution**: Run AI inference through various providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, etc.)
4. **Response Processing**: Parse and display AI-generated responses
5. **UI Components**: Settings pages, response displays, and configuration management

## Architecture

### Core Components

#### Models (`model/`)
- **`ai_config.dart`**: Union type for different configuration types (API keys, prompts, models)
- **`ai_input.dart`**: Data structures for task input (task details, action items, log entries)
- **`cloud_inference_config.dart`**: Configuration for cloud inference providers

#### Database (`database/`)
- **`ai_config_db.drift`**: Drift database schema for persistent storage
- **`ai_config_repository.dart`**: Interface for CRUD operations on configurations

#### Repositories (`repository/`)
- **`unified_ai_inference_repository.dart`**: Main repository handling all AI inference requests
- **`cloud_inference_repository.dart`**: Handles communication with AI providers
- **`ai_input_repository.dart`**: Prepares task data for AI processing

#### Services (`services/`)
- **`auto_checklist_service.dart`**: Handles automatic checklist creation logic and decision making

#### State Management (`state/`)
- **`unified_ai_controller.dart`**: Main controller orchestrating AI operations
- **`inference_status_controller.dart`**: Tracks inference progress and status
- **`latest_summary_controller.dart`**: Manages the latest AI response for a task

## How Task Summaries Work

### 1. Prompt Creation

Task summary prompts are defined in `util/preconfigured_prompts.dart` and configured through the prompt management system:

```dart
const taskSummaryPrompt = PreconfiguredPrompt(
  name: 'Task Summary',
  // Creates a detailed prompt instructing the AI to:
  // - Start with a single H1 header suggesting a task title
  // - Summarize the task for someone returning after a long time
  // - List achieved results (with ✅ emojis)
  // - List remaining steps (numbered)
  // - Note learnings (💡) and annoyances (🤯)
  // - Indicate if the task is complete
);
```

The prompt template includes:
- System message setting context
- Detailed user message with formatting instructions
- Placeholder `{{task}}` replaced with actual task JSON

### 2. Data Flow

1. **Input Preparation**: Task data is serialized to JSON including:
   - Task title, status, duration
   - Action items (completed and pending)
   - Log entries with timestamps and text

2. **Inference Execution**:
   ```dart
   // In UnifiedAiInferenceRepository
   await _runCloudInference(
     input: taskJson,
     promptConfig: promptConfig,
     inferenceProvider: provider,
   );
   ```

3. **Response Streaming**: AI responses are streamed and accumulated

### 3. Response Parsing and Processing

For task summaries, the response is treated as markdown text:
- No JSON parsing (unlike action item suggestions)
- The complete response is saved as an `AiResponseEntry`
- Post-processing includes automatic title extraction (see below)
- Displayed using `GptMarkdown` widget for proper formatting

### 4. Automatic Title Extraction

When generating task summaries, the system automatically extracts suggested titles:
- The AI is prompted to start with an H1 header (`# Title`)
- The title is extracted using regex pattern: `^#\s+(.+)$`
- If the current task title is less than 5 characters, it's replaced with the AI suggestion
- This enables automatic title generation for tasks created from audio recordings
- The extracted title updates the task entity in the database
- When displaying summaries, the H1 title is filtered out to avoid redundancy

## Automatic Checklist Creation with Smart Re-run

### Overview

The AI system includes automatic checklist creation for action item suggestions. When AI generates action item suggestions for a task that has no existing checklists, it automatically creates a checklist containing all the suggested items, then intelligently re-runs the AI suggestions to provide fresh recommendations.

### How It Works

1. **AI generates action item suggestions** for a task (first run)
2. **Post-processing check** in `UnifiedAiInferenceRepository._handlePostProcessing()`
3. **Decision logic**: 
   - If task has no existing checklists → auto-create checklist with all suggestions
   - If task has existing checklists → show manual drag-and-drop suggestions (existing behavior)
4. **Automatic re-run**: After checklist creation, the same AI prompt runs again
5. **Smart results**: Second run typically produces 0 suggestions since items are now in the checklist

### Implementation Details

#### Key Components:
- **`AutoChecklistService`**: Core service handling auto-creation logic and decision making
- **`UnifiedAiInferenceRepository._handleActionItemSuggestions()`**: Post-processing method that triggers auto-creation
- **`UnifiedAiInferenceRepository._rerunActionItemSuggestions()`**: Automatic re-run logic
- **`ChecklistRepository.createChecklist()`**: Creates checklist with initial items
- **Semaphore protection**: Prevents concurrent auto-creation for the same task

#### Decision Flow:
```dart
// In _handlePostProcessing()
if (promptConfig.aiResponseType == AiResponseType.actionItemSuggestions) {
  if (entity is Task && suggestedActionItems != null && suggestedActionItems.isNotEmpty && !isRerun) {
    await _handleActionItemSuggestions(entity, suggestedActionItems);
  }
}

// In _handleActionItemSuggestions()
if (_autoCreatingTasks.contains(task.id)) {
  return; // Prevent concurrent auto-creation
}

final shouldAutoCreate = await _autoChecklistService.shouldAutoCreate(taskId: task.id);
if (shouldAutoCreate) {
  _autoCreatingTasks.add(task.id); // Mark as processing
  try {
    // Convert AI suggestions to checklist items and create checklist
    final result = await autoChecklistService.autoCreateChecklist(...);
    if (result.success) {
      await _rerunActionItemSuggestions(task); // Auto re-run
    }
  } finally {
    _autoCreatingTasks.remove(task.id); // Always clean up
  }
}
```

#### Smart Re-run System

Instead of hiding suggestions, the system automatically re-runs the AI prompt after checklist creation:

- **Automatic trigger**: After successful checklist creation, the exact same prompt that was used originally runs again
- **Context awareness**: AI recognizes items are now in the checklist and typically suggests nothing
- **Natural UX**: Users see the auto-created checklist plus minimal/empty suggestions
- **No state tracking**: No need for complex `autoChecklistCreated` field management
- **Consistent results**: Re-run uses the exact same prompt configuration, ensuring consistent behavior

#### Technical Implementation

1. **Semaphore Protection**:
   ```dart
   // Prevent concurrent auto-creation
   final Set<String> _autoCreatingTasks = {};
   
   if (_autoCreatingTasks.contains(task.id)) {
     return; // Skip if already processing
   }
   ```

2. **Automatic Re-run**:
   ```dart
   // In _handleActionItemSuggestions()
   if (result.success) {
     await _rerunActionItemSuggestions(task, promptConfig);
   }
   
   // In _rerunActionItemSuggestions()
   await _runInferenceInternal(
     entityId: task.id,
     promptConfig: originalPrompt, // Use exact same prompt as originally
     onProgress: (_) {}, // Silent re-run
     onStatusChange: (_) {},
     isRerun: true, // Prevent recursive auto-creation
   );
   ```

3. **Robust Concurrency Protection**:
   ```dart
   // Simplified error handling with reliable semaphore cleanup
   if (shouldAutoCreate) {
     _autoCreatingTasks.add(task.id);
     try {
       // Auto-creation and re-run logic
     } finally {
       // Always clean up semaphore, even if errors occur
       _autoCreatingTasks.remove(task.id);
     }
   }
   ```

#### Benefits

- **Eliminates manual work**: Saves up to 10 clicks (creating checklist + dragging multiple items)
- **Natural UX**: No hidden UI elements - users see logical progression
- **Race condition protection**: Semaphore prevents database constraint errors
- **AI context awareness**: AI naturally produces fewer/no suggestions after items are in checklist
- **Seamless experience**: First-time users get immediate value from AI suggestions
- **Backwards compatible**: Existing manual flow unchanged for tasks with checklists
- **Self-healing**: System corrects duplicate suggestions through intelligent re-run
- **Optimized performance**: Eliminates redundant database calls by passing `shouldAutoCreate` result directly

## Response Types

The system supports four AI response types:

1. **Task Summary** (`AiResponseType.taskSummary`)
   - Generates comprehensive task overviews
   - Response is markdown text
   - No special parsing required

2. **Action Item Suggestions** (`AiResponseType.actionItemSuggestions`)
   - Extracts potential action items from logs
   - Response is parsed as JSON array
   - Items not already in task are suggested
   - **Automatic Checklist Creation with Smart Re-run** - If no checklists exist for the task, automatically creates a checklist with all AI suggestions, then re-runs the prompt to show updated suggestions (typically empty since items are now in the checklist)

3. **Image Analysis** (`AiResponseType.imageAnalysis`)
   - Analyzes attached images in task context
   - When linked to a task, extracts only task-relevant information
   - Provides humorous dismissal for off-topic images
   - Response is descriptive text without AI disclaimer

4. **Audio Transcription** (`AiResponseType.audioTranscription`)
   - Transcribes audio recordings
   - When linked to a task, uses task context for better accuracy with names and concepts
   - Response is transcribed text

## Configuration System

### API Key Management

```dart
// Create an API key configuration
final config = AiConfig.apiKey(
  id: 'openai-key',
  baseUrl: 'https://api.openai.com/v1',
  apiKey: 'sk-...',
  name: 'OpenAI API Key',
  createdAt: DateTime.now(),
  supportsThinkingOutput: true,
);

// Save configuration
await repository.saveConfig(config);
```

### Prompt Configuration

Prompts can be:
- **Preconfigured**: Use built-in templates from `preconfiguredPrompts.dart`
  - Task Summary
  - Action Item Suggestions
  - Image Analysis
  - Image Analysis in Task Context
  - Audio Transcription
  - Audio Transcription with Task Context
- **Custom**: Create custom prompts with variables and specific requirements

The system includes context-aware variations of prompts that activate when entities are linked to tasks, providing more relevant and focused AI responses.

### Model Configuration

Models define:
- Which provider to use
- Model name (e.g., "gpt-4", "claude-opus-4")
- Supported modalities (text, image, audio)
- Token limits

## UI Components

### Settings Pages
- **`ai_settings_page.dart`**: Main settings hub with tabs for prompts, models, providers
- **`prompt_edit_page.dart`**: Create/edit prompt configurations
- **`inference_model_edit_page.dart`**: Configure AI models
- **`inference_provider_edit_page.dart`**: Manage API providers

### Response Display
- **`ai_response_summary.dart`**: Renders AI responses with markdown support (filters H1 titles for task summaries)
- **`latest_ai_response_summary.dart`**: Shows the most recent AI response for a task
- **`ai_response_summary_modal.dart`**: Full-screen view of AI responses

### Progress Indicators
- **`unified_ai_progress_view.dart`**: Shows inference progress
- **`ai_running_animation.dart`**: Animated indicator during processing

## Usage Example

```dart
// 1. User triggers AI summary from task view
final controller = UnifiedAiController(
  taskId: task.id,
  ref: ref,
  aiResponseType: AiResponseType.taskSummary,
);

// 2. Controller automatically:
//    - Fetches task data
//    - Selects appropriate prompt
//    - Runs inference
//    - Saves response

// 3. UI displays response
LatestAiResponseSummary(
  taskId: task.id,
  aiResponseType: AiResponseType.taskSummary,
)
```

## Common Questions

### Q: How are prompts customized?
A: Prompts use a template system with variables like `{{task}}`. The system replaces these with actual data before sending to the AI.

### Q: How does automatic title extraction work?
A: When generating task summaries, the AI suggests a title as an H1 header. If the current task title is less than 5 characters (e.g., empty or very short), it's automatically replaced with the AI's suggestion. This is particularly useful for tasks created from audio recordings.

### Q: How does context-aware image analysis work?
A: When an image is linked to a task, the image analysis prompt automatically includes the full task context (title, status, action items, log entries). The AI then:
- Extracts only information relevant to the task
- Provides a brief, humorous note if the image is off-topic (e.g., "This appears to be a photo of ducks by a lake, which seems unrelated to your database migration task. Moving on...")
- Focuses on actionable insights for task-relevant images
This prevents verbose, irrelevant image descriptions from cluttering task summaries.

### Q: When are task-context prompts shown in the AI menu?
A: Task-context prompts (like "Image Analysis in Task Context" or "Audio Transcription with Task Context") only appear in the AI popup menu when:
- An image/audio is linked to a task
- The prompt requires both the media type AND task context
The system automatically filters available prompts based on the current entity and its relationships, ensuring users only see relevant options.

### Q: Which AI providers are supported?
A: The system supports OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, Groq, OpenRouter, local Whisper models, and custom OpenAI-compatible endpoints.

### Q: How are errors handled?
A: Errors are wrapped in `InferenceError` objects and displayed using `AiErrorDisplay` widget with user-friendly messages.

### Q: Can I use local models?
A: Yes, by configuring a custom endpoint pointing to a local inference server (e.g., Ollama for text models, or local Whisper server for audio transcription).

### Q: How does the system handle concurrent AI requests?
A: The system includes robust concurrency protection:
- **Semaphore Protection**: Prevents multiple auto-checklist creations for the same task simultaneously
- **Race Condition Prevention**: Uses a `Set<String> _autoCreatingTasks` to track ongoing operations
- **Database Safety**: Eliminates "UNIQUE constraint failed" errors from concurrent operations
- **Graceful Cleanup**: Ensures semaphore state is cleaned up on both success and failure
- **Silent Re-runs**: Secondary AI runs don't trigger additional auto-creation to prevent recursion

## Testing

The system includes comprehensive test coverage:

### Unit Tests
- **Repository Tests**: Mock tests for `AiInputRepository`, `UnifiedAiInferenceRepository`, `AiConfigRepository`
- **Service Tests**: Tests for `AutoChecklistService` including edge cases and error handling
- **Controller Tests**: Tests for `ChecklistSuggestionsController` and state management
- **Concurrency Tests**: Semaphore protection and race condition prevention

### Integration Tests
- **Auto-checklist Creation**: End-to-end testing of automatic checklist creation flow
- **Smart Re-run System**: Testing of automatic re-run after checklist creation
- **Concurrency Protection**: Testing semaphore prevents database constraint errors
- **Error Handling**: Graceful failure modes and recovery

### Widget Tests
- **UI Components**: Tests for AI settings pages, response displays, and configuration management
- **Provider Integration**: Tests for Riverpod state management integration

### Key Test Coverage
- ✅ Basic auto-checklist creation functionality
- ✅ Semaphore prevents concurrent auto-creation
- ✅ Re-run generates appropriate suggestions after checklist creation
- ✅ Behavior when tasks already have existing checklists
- ✅ Error handling in auto-checklist service
- ✅ UI shows correct suggestions after re-run
- ✅ All existing functionality remains unbroken (200+ tests passing)

## Security Considerations

- API keys are stored locally in the encrypted database
- Keys are never logged or exposed in the UI
- Network requests use HTTPS
- Sensitive data is not included in error messages
