docs/2025-12-02_sync_investigation.md, before:

# Sync Investigation - Root Cause Analysis

**Date:** 2025-12-02
**Issue:** Entries not syncing between devices after sync refactor (Sept-Oct 2025)

## Executive Summary

The sync system underwent a major rewrite from September-October 2025. While the new architecture is more sophisticated (stream-first pipeline, typed metrics, retry with backoff), it introduced several reliability regressions that cause entries to be permanently skipped.

## Key Findings

### 1. Retry Cap with Marker Advancement (`treatAsHandled`)

**Location:** `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_consumer.dart:340-354`

**Problem:** After `_maxRetriesPerEvent` (5 attempts), events are marked as `treatAsHandled = true`, which allows the read marker to advance past them - **permanently skipping** the event.

```dart
if (nextAttempts >= _maxRetriesPerEvent && !isMissingAttachment) {
  treatAsHandled = true;  // THIS IS THE PROBLEM
  _retryTracker.clear(id);
  // ... event is now permanently skipped
}
```

**Impact:** Any event that fails 5 times (network issues, attachment not ready, processing errors) is lost forever.

### 2. Lazy Attachment Fetching Breaks Ordering

**OLD CODE:** `saveAttachment()` immediately downloaded and saved attachments when the attachment event arrived.

**NEW CODE:** `AttachmentIngestor.process()` only records the descriptor in an in-memory `AttachmentIndex`. Actual download happens later in `SmartJournalEntityLoader._ensureMediaOnMissing()`.

**Problem:** If the sync payload event arrives before its attachment descriptor (due to Matrix event ordering), the entity processing fails because the attachment can't be found. After 5 retries, the entry is lost.

### 3. Fallback Tail Limit When Marker Not Found

**Location:** `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_helpers.dart:134-152`

**OLD CODE:** If marker not found, processed ALL events in timeline.
**NEW CODE:** If marker not found, falls back to only the last 30 events (`tailLimit = 30`).

```dart
final slice = idx >= 0
    ? events.sublist(idx + 1)
    : events.sublist((events.length - tailLimit).clamp(0, events.length));
```

**Impact:** If device was offline for a while and the marker event is no longer in Matrix's local timeline, all events between the lost marker and the last 30 are skipped.

### 4. In-Memory State Loss

**Problem:** `AttachmentIndex` and `RetryTracker` are in-memory only. If the app crashes or restarts mid-sync:
- Attachment descriptors that were indexed but not yet used are lost
- Retry state is lost, but marker might have already advanced

### 5. Catch-up Pagination Limits

**Location:** `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/catch_up_strategy.dart`

**Problem:** `maxLookback = 4000` events. If more than 4000 events occurred since last sync, older events won't be caught up.

## Comparison: Old vs New

| Aspect | Old Code | New Code |
|--------|----------|----------|
| Attachment handling | Immediate download | Lazy (index only) |
| Retry on failure | No explicit retry cap | 5 retries then skip |
| Marker not found fallback | Process ALL events | Process last 30 only |
| State persistence | Minimal | In-memory only |
| Failure recovery | Retry on next sync cycle | Permanent skip after cap |

## Fixes Applied (2025-12-02)

**PR:** https://github.com/matthiasn/lotti/pull/2485

### Fix 1: Remove `treatAsHandled` Marker Advancement ✅ DONE

Changed `matrix_stream_consumer.dart` to keep retrying indefinitely instead of marking events as handled after retry cap. Failed events now block marker advancement forever until they succeed.

### Fix 2: Increase Fallback Tail Limit ✅ DONE

Changed `_liveScanTailLimit` from 30 to 1000 in `matrix_stream_consumer.dart:219`.

### Fix 3: Stop Dropping Failed Events in Filter ✅ DONE

**Location:** `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_helpers.dart:162-194`

**Problem:** `filterSyncPayloadsByMonotonic()` was dropping events that were "not newer" AND "had attempts". But having attempts > 0 doesn't mean the event was **completed** - it might have **failed** and needs retry!

**Scenario:**
1. E1 (T=100) fails → attempts=1, marker stays before E1
2. E2 (T=200) succeeds → attempts=0 (cleared), marker advances to E2
3. Next scan: E1 is older than marker, has attempts → **DROPPED forever!**

**Fix:** Changed `hasAttempts` parameter to `wasCompleted` - now only drops events that were **successfully completed**, not events with pending retries.

```dart
// OLD (buggy):
hasAttempts: (id) => _retryTracker.attempts(id) > 0,

// NEW (fixed):
wasCompleted: _wasCompletedSync,
```

## Deferred Improvements

### Priority 2: Restore Eager Attachment Download ✅ DONE (2025-12-02)

Modified `AttachmentIngestor` to eagerly download and save attachments when recording descriptors:
- Added `documentsDirectory` parameter to `AttachmentIngestor`
- Downloads attachment via `event.downloadAndDecryptAttachment()` when descriptor is recorded
- Writes to disk using `atomicWriteBytes()` for safe file operations
- Fast-path deduplication: skips download if file already exists and is non-empty
- Graceful error handling: logs exceptions but doesn't throw (SmartJournalEntityLoader can retry later)
- Path traversal protection: blocks attempts to write outside documents directory

Files modified:
- `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/attachment_ingestor.dart` - Added eager download logic
- `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_consumer.dart` - Pass documentsDirectory to ingestor
- `lib/features/sync/matrix/matrix_service.dart` - Pass getDocumentsDirectory() to consumer

### Priority 3: Persist Failed Event IDs (DEFERRED)

Store failed event IDs in the database (not just in-memory) so they can be retried after app restart:
```dart
// Suggested: Add failed_sync_events table
class FailedSyncEvent {
  final String eventId;
  final DateTime firstFailure;
  final int attempts;
  final String? lastError;
}
```

### Priority 4: Add "Missing Base" Detection (DEFERRED)

The code has `JournalUpdateSkipReason.missingBase` but it doesn't seem to block marker advancement properly for linked entries.

## Files Modified

1. `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_consumer.dart`
   - ✅ Removed `treatAsHandled = true` for retry cap (lines 342-355, 390-399)
   - ✅ Increased `_liveScanTailLimit` from 30 to 1000 (line 219)
   - ✅ Changed filter callback from `hasAttempts` to `wasCompleted` (line 915)

2. `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_helpers.dart`
   - ✅ Renamed `hasAttempts` → `wasCompleted` in `filterSyncPayloadsByMonotonic`
   - ✅ Updated filter logic to only drop completed events, not failed retries

## Files to Modify (Deferred)

1. `lib/database/database.dart` (or new file)
   - Add persistence for failed sync events

2. `lib/features/sync/matrix/smart_journal_entity_loader.dart`
   - Improve handling when attachment not in index

## Testing Recommendations

1. **Test offline scenario:** Create entry on device A, wait for marker to advance, bring device B online after 50+ events - verify all entries sync
2. **Test attachment ordering:** Send attachment descriptor after payload - verify entity is eventually synced
3. **Test app restart mid-sync:** Kill app during sync, restart - verify no entries lost
4. **Test retry exhaustion:** Simulate persistent failure - verify entry is NOT permanently skipped

## Conclusion

The core issue is the introduction of `treatAsHandled = true` after retry exhaustion, combined with the lazy attachment fetching that creates ordering dependencies. The old code was simpler and more robust - it just processed everything it saw, downloading attachments eagerly, without complex marker-based skipping logic.

Commit message:

fix: sync catch up issue after waking up from standby

docs/2025-12-02_sync_investigation.md, after:

# Sync Investigation - Root Cause Analysis

**Date:** 2025-12-02
**Issue:** Entries not syncing between devices after sync refactor (Sept-Oct 2025)

## Executive Summary

The sync system underwent a major rewrite from September-October 2025. While the new architecture is more sophisticated (stream-first pipeline, typed metrics, retry with backoff), it introduced several reliability regressions that cause entries to be permanently skipped.

## Key Findings

### 1. Retry Cap with Marker Advancement (`treatAsHandled`)

**Location:** `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_consumer.dart:340-354`

**Problem:** After `_maxRetriesPerEvent` (5 attempts), events are marked as `treatAsHandled = true`, which allows the read marker to advance past them - **permanently skipping** the event.

```dart
if (nextAttempts >= _maxRetriesPerEvent && !isMissingAttachment) {
  treatAsHandled = true;  // THIS IS THE PROBLEM
  _retryTracker.clear(id);
  // ... event is now permanently skipped
}
```

**Impact:** Any event that fails 5 times (network issues, attachment not ready, processing errors) is lost forever.

### 2. Lazy Attachment Fetching Breaks Ordering

**OLD CODE:** `saveAttachment()` immediately downloaded and saved attachments when the attachment event arrived.

**NEW CODE:** `AttachmentIngestor.process()` only records the descriptor in an in-memory `AttachmentIndex`. Actual download happens later in `SmartJournalEntityLoader._ensureMediaOnMissing()`.

**Problem:** If the sync payload event arrives before its attachment descriptor (due to Matrix event ordering), the entity processing fails because the attachment can't be found. After 5 retries, the entry is lost.

### 3. Fallback Tail Limit When Marker Not Found

**Location:** `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_helpers.dart:134-152`

**OLD CODE:** If marker not found, processed ALL events in timeline.
**NEW CODE:** If marker not found, falls back to only the last 30 events (`tailLimit = 30`).

```dart
final slice = idx >= 0
    ? events.sublist(idx + 1)
    : events.sublist((events.length - tailLimit).clamp(0, events.length));
```

**Impact:** If device was offline for a while and the marker event is no longer in Matrix's local timeline, all events between the lost marker and the last 30 are skipped.

### 4. In-Memory State Loss

**Problem:** `AttachmentIndex` and `RetryTracker` are in-memory only. If the app crashes or restarts mid-sync:
- Attachment descriptors that were indexed but not yet used are lost
- Retry state is lost, but marker might have already advanced

### 5. Catch-up Pagination Limits

**Location:** `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/catch_up_strategy.dart`

**Problem:** `maxLookback = 4000` events. If more than 4000 events occurred since last sync, older events won't be caught up.

## Comparison: Old vs New

| Aspect | Old Code | New Code |
|--------|----------|----------|
| Attachment handling | Immediate download | Lazy (index only) |
| Retry on failure | No explicit retry cap | 5 retries then skip |
| Marker not found fallback | Process ALL events | Process last 30 only |
| State persistence | Minimal | In-memory only |
| Failure recovery | Retry on next sync cycle | Permanent skip after cap |

## Fixes Applied (2025-12-02)

**PR:** https://github.com/matthiasn/lotti/pull/2485

### Fix 1: Remove `treatAsHandled` Marker Advancement ✅ DONE

Changed `matrix_stream_consumer.dart` to keep retrying indefinitely instead of marking events as handled after retry cap. Failed events now block marker advancement forever until they succeed.

### Fix 2: Increase Fallback Tail Limit ✅ DONE

Changed `_liveScanTailLimit` from 30 to 1000 in `matrix_stream_consumer.dart:219`.

### Fix 3: Stop Dropping Failed Events in Filter ✅ DONE

**Location:** `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_helpers.dart:162-194`

**Problem:** `filterSyncPayloadsByMonotonic()` was dropping events that were "not newer" AND "had attempts". But having attempts > 0 doesn't mean the event was **completed** - it might have **failed** and needs retry!

**Scenario:**
1. E1 (T=100) fails → attempts=1, marker stays before E1
2. E2 (T=200) succeeds → attempts=0 (cleared), marker advances to E2
3. Next scan: E1 is older than marker, has attempts → **DROPPED forever!**

**Fix:** Changed `hasAttempts` parameter to `wasCompleted` - now only drops events that were **successfully completed**, not events with pending retries.

```dart
// OLD (buggy):
hasAttempts: (id) => _retryTracker.attempts(id) > 0,

// NEW (fixed):
wasCompleted: _wasCompletedSync,
```

## Deferred Improvements

### Priority 2: Restore Eager Attachment Download ✅ DONE (2025-12-02)

Modified `AttachmentIngestor` to eagerly download and save attachments when recording descriptors:
- Added `documentsDirectory` parameter to `AttachmentIngestor`
- Downloads attachment via `event.downloadAndDecryptAttachment()` when descriptor is recorded
- Writes to disk using `atomicWriteBytes()` for safe file operations
- Fast-path deduplication: skips download if file already exists and is non-empty
- Graceful error handling: logs exceptions but doesn't throw (SmartJournalEntityLoader can retry later)
- Path traversal protection: blocks attempts to write outside documents directory

Files modified:
- `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/attachment_ingestor.dart` - Added eager download logic
- `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_consumer.dart` - Pass documentsDirectory to ingestor
- `lib/features/sync/matrix/matrix_service.dart` - Pass getDocumentsDirectory() to consumer

### Priority 2.5: Wake From Standby Detection ✅ DONE (2025-12-02)

**Problem Identified:** When a device wakes from standby after being asleep for >30 seconds, the live scan would immediately process recent events and advance the marker before a proper catch-up could process older events in the backlog. This caused events sent during standby to be permanently skipped.

**Root Cause:**
1. Desktop wakes from standby after 15 minutes
2. LiveScan runs immediately and processes only the tail of the timeline (30 events)
3. Marker advances to the newest event
4. CatchUp eventually runs but uses the NEW marker - missing older events

**Fix Applied:**
- Added `_wakeCatchUpPending` flag and `_standbyThreshold` (30 seconds)
- When a signal arrives after a gap > 30 seconds, detect "wake from standby"
- Trigger an immediate catch-up and defer marker advancement until catch-up completes
- Reset audit mode to scan larger tails on wake (3 scans with computed audit tail)

**Files Modified:**
- `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_consumer.dart`
  - Added wake detection in `_scheduleLiveScan()`
  - Added marker deferral in `_processOrdered()` when `_wakeCatchUpPending`
  - New logging: `wake.detected`, `wake.catchup.start/done`, `marker.deferred.wake`

### Priority 3: Persist Failed Event IDs (DEFERRED)

Store failed event IDs in the database (not just in-memory) so they can be retried after app restart:
```dart
// Suggested: Add failed_sync_events table
class FailedSyncEvent {
  final String eventId;
  final DateTime firstFailure;
  final int attempts;
  final String? lastError;
}
```

### Priority 4: Add "Missing Base" Detection (DEFERRED)

The code has `JournalUpdateSkipReason.missingBase` but it doesn't seem to block marker advancement properly for linked entries.

## Files Modified

1. `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_consumer.dart`
   - ✅ Removed `treatAsHandled = true` for retry cap (lines 342-355, 390-399)
   - ✅ Increased `_liveScanTailLimit` from 30 to 1000 (line 219)
   - ✅ Changed filter callback from `hasAttempts` to `wasCompleted` (line 915)
   - ✅ Added `_wakeCatchUpPending` flag and `_standbyThreshold` constant
   - ✅ Added wake detection in `_scheduleLiveScan()` with catch-up trigger
   - ✅ Added marker deferral in `_processOrdered()` when wake catch-up pending

2. `lib/features/sync/matrix/pipeline/matrix_stream_helpers.dart`
   - ✅ Renamed `hasAttempts` → `wasCompleted` in `filterSyncPayloadsByMonotonic`
   - ✅ Updated filter logic to only drop completed events, not failed retries

## Files to Modify (Deferred)

1. `lib/database/database.dart` (or new file)
   - Add persistence for failed sync events

2. `lib/features/sync/matrix/smart_journal_entity_loader.dart`
   - Improve handling when attachment not in index

## Testing Recommendations

1. **Test offline scenario:** Create entry on device A, wait for marker to advance, bring device B online after 50+ events - verify all entries sync
2. **Test attachment ordering:** Send attachment descriptor after payload - verify entity is eventually synced
3. **Test app restart mid-sync:** Kill app during sync, restart - verify no entries lost
4. **Test retry exhaustion:** Simulate persistent failure - verify entry is NOT permanently skipped

## Conclusion

The core issue is the introduction of `treatAsHandled = true` after retry exhaustion, combined with the lazy attachment fetching that creates ordering dependencies. The old code was simpler and more robust - it just processed everything it saw, downloading attachments eagerly, without complex marker-based skipping logic.
